docs(releases): add docs for switch to enable automatic release creation (#18807)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/product/releases/usage/disable-auto-release-creation.mdx

---
title: Disable Release Creation
sidebar_order: 50
description: "Learn how to stop Sentry from automatically creating releases from ingested events so you can manage releases yourself."
---

<Alert level="info">

> This feature is currently in early access. To access it, enable the Early Adopter flag in your [organization settings](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/settings/:orgslug/).

Reviewer: this might be correct 🤷

</Alert>

By default, Sentry creates a release the first time it sees a new release identifier in ingested events. If you'd rather manage releases yourself, you can turn this off in **Project Settings > General Settings > Event Settings** by disabling **Enable release auto-creation from telemetry**.

When this setting is disabled:

- Sentry no longer creates releases from ingested events.
- Events are still ingested as normal. If the release doesn't already exist, the event just won't have an associated release.

> - Events still associate with releases that already exist, so you keep creating releases explicitly, for example using the [Sentry CLI](/cli/releases/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Events still associate with releases that already exist, and you can keep creating releases explicitly, for example using the [Sentry CLI](/cli/releases/).
```
